book	chapter	verse_order	sentence_order	sentence
Tit 	1 	1 	1 	Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness;
Tit 	1 	2 	1 	In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began;
Tit 	1 	3 	1 	But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour;
Tit 	1 	4 	1 	o Titus, mine own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour.
Tit 	1 	5 	1 	For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee:
Tit 	1 	6 	1 	If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly.
Tit 	1 	7 	1 	For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre;
Tit 	1 	8 	1 	But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate;
Tit 	1 	9 	1 	Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers.
Tit 	1 	10 	1 	For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision:
Tit 	1 	11 	1 	Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake.
Tit 	1 	12 	1 	One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.
Tit 	1 	13 	1 	his witness is true.
Tit 	1 	13 	2 	Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith;
Tit 	1 	14 	1 	Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth.
Tit 	1 	15 	1 	Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled.
Tit 	1 	16 	1 	hey profess that they know God; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.
Tit 	2 	1 	1 	But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine:
Tit 	2 	2 	1 	hat the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.
Tit 	2 	3 	1 	he aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things;
Tit 	2 	4 	1 	hat they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children,
Tit 	2 	5 	1 	o be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed.
Tit 	2 	6 	1 	Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.
Tit 	2 	7 	1 	In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity,
Tit 	2 	8 	1 	Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you.
Tit 	2 	9 	1 	Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again;
Tit 	2 	10 	1 	Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.
Tit 	2 	11 	1 	For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men,
Tit 	2 	12 	1 	eaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;
Tit 	2 	13 	1 	Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;
Tit 	2 	14 	1 	Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.
Tit 	2 	15 	1 	hese things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority.
Tit 	2 	15 	2 	Let no man despise thee.
Tit 	3 	1 	1 	Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work,
Tit 	3 	2 	1 	o speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men.
Tit 	3 	3 	1 	For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.
Tit 	3 	4 	1 	But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared,
Tit 	3 	5 	1 	Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;
Tit 	3 	6 	1 	Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;
Tit 	3 	7 	1 	hat being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
Tit 	3 	8 	1 	his is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works.
Tit 	3 	8 	2 	These things are good and profitable unto men.
Tit 	3 	9 	1 	But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.
Tit 	3 	10 	1 	A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject;
Tit 	3 	11 	1 	Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself.
Tit 	3 	12 	1 	When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.
Tit 	3 	13 	1 	Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them.
Tit 	3 	14 	1 	And let our's also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful.
Tit 	3 	15 	1 	All that are with me salute thee.
Tit 	3 	15 	2 	Greet them that love us in the faith.
Tit 	3 	15 	3 	Grace be with you all.
Tit 	3 	15 	4 	Amen.
